Across Israel, protesters are
growing louder.
Those frustrated by the war
are now grappling
with how to make their voices heard.
CNN's Melissa Bell has more
in Israel, too.
There are those who objected
to their government's handling of the war
in Gaza
Among them, Ben Arad, who has an 18 year
old, is due to enlist this week
for his mandatory
military service in Iceland.
Instead, he tells the crowd
he's choosing to go to jail
We caught up with him
in Tel Aviv
on his very last day of freedom.
I don't refuse because I'm afraid of
being hurt or or killed
in military accidents
have a very, very deep
disgust of the things that I'm seeing
happening things,
he says, that
Israeli media doesn't dwell on
or that he seeks out
on international networks and online.
I think something that
really broke my heart
was the flower massacre.
So seeing people
trample each other to to uh, to get food.
I mean, you just can't deny at that point
that there is a famine going on
and people are hungry.
So on Monday, Ben will hand himself
in becoming one of only
a handful of so-called refuseniks
to make their decisions public.
Since the war began,
In a country
where military service marks
the start of every Israeli's
grown up life.
Aside from those exempt
on religious grounds,
the war has made avoiding it
a political act.
I've been called a traitor.
Uh,
I've been told that I need to be deported
or I've been asked why I don't just move.
Uh, I mean, it's, uh,
not not such terrible stuff.
I haven't gotten that yet.
Like, I'll get that when I go to jail.
Yet Ben
says he's
determined to give up his freedom
in order to remain free of a war
that he simply doesn't believe in.
Now, it's difficult to overstate
what a remarkable decision
it is for an Israeli 18 year
old to decide not to serve,
given the place that military service has
in this country,
but especially at this time.
I think listening to the testimony
that you were just hearing there
beyond and voice
that you just heard from that Dr.
remember that international networks
like CNN can't get into Gaza,
but do what
they can
to try and show what's happening
to Palestinian civilians,
that he's had to seek out
that information to make his decision,
I think is interesting in itself.
One media analyst pointing out
that here in Israel,
the drums of war
have been beating so loudly
that it's been hard
for the Israeli public to get access
to its own media,
to much of what's happening
to Palestinian civilians.
So remarkable story at a remarkable time.
And bear in mind, that we are now
in the third day of four days of protest
against this war here in Jerusalem
and beyond.
There are really fascinating perspective
from that young man.
Melissa Bell live for us in Jerusalem.
Thank you so much.
All right.
In terms of what else is happening
on the ground in Gaza, what was once
the enclave's largest
hospital, really a place of hope
and healing is now permanent.
Leave out of service.
That's
according to the acting director
of the Al-Shifa Medical Complex.
The hospital has turned
into a makeshift
graveyard one day
after Israeli troops ended their two week
siege there.
The World Health
Organization says Al-Shifa is in ruins
and can no longer be able to function
in any way as a hospital.
Now, these before and after images
show the extent of the destruction.
A spokesperson
says that the loss of the hospital
will have devastating consequences
for the people of Gaza.
We've had contact with the staff.
The directors told us that
Al-Shifa hospital is gone.
Destroying Al-Shifa means ripping
the heart out of the health system.
It was the tertiary care center.
It was a huge hospital.
750 beds, 25 operating
theaters, 30 intensive care rooms.
You know, it was the
the place people
go to
for the kind of care
that a really good health system provides
that we in all our societies
expect to have.
Should we be in need?
Now, Israel has described
the 14 day raid
as an anti-terror mission
and a government
spokesperson is referring
to the operation
as the gold standard of urban warfare.
I believe that the terrorist
takeover of Shifa
and the subsequent
Special Forces operation
to clear the hospital of terrorists
will be studied
by future
generations of military strategists.
At West Points and Sandhurst
as the gold standard for urban warfare
But our
next guest says
the indiscriminate
bombing of Gaza
has killed more children,
more women, doctors, aid workers
and journalists
than any other war in our time
as secretary general
of the Norwegian Refugee Council.
He joins us live now from Oslo, Norway.
And I want to start obviously
by talking
about what happened with the World
Central Kitchen Aid workers,
seven of them,
seven of them rather tragically killed.
Clearly, it is part of the calculation
right of aid organizations
when you are entering into a war zone,
that there is some degree of risk.
But there are also certain things
that these organizations often
do to mitigate the risks
they coordinated with the IDF.
The IDF knew their coordinates.
They were in a vehicle
that was clearly marked
with World Central Kitchen's logo
a lot of people are asking themselves,
how on earth
could this have happened?
I mean, I'm not really sure what else
they could have done
to really mitigate the risks.
I did want to start
by getting your reaction
to what happened.
I think our colleagues in World
Central Kitchen
did everything that they could
to be safe in the war zone, something
so different than the women
and the innocent with food
and the Israelis
that deliberately targeted
these three vehicles. We do not know.
We do not believe that they wanted
to attack one central kitchen
with whom they had worked a lot
in previous operations
to reach people in Gaza.
But they deliberately
and repeatedly targeted
these three vehicles So it's very clear
that they are
again and again and again targeting
without knowing who inside and there.
Therefore, it's the worst casualty
of any
any war in recent memory.
In terms of women,
children, the innocent,
the aid workers, the
doctors, the nurses, the teachers,
any any group
that had protection
under international law.
And it's not the gold standard of
of of good where warfare
this is a race to the bottom.
And it's happening with American,
German and other Western
And in response to this tragic strike,
the Israeli defense minister said
that Israel
would open
a joint situation room
with international groups
to enable coordination
of aid distribution
in Gaza with the military.
Now, aside from a ceasefire, which,
of course, would require both sides
to agree
and for Hamas to also release hostages.
Do you think this is the right next step
in terms of rebuilding
trust and getting more aid,
much more needed aid into Gaza,
given the dire situation now
and you have the World Central Kitchen
understandably saying
they're going to suspend their work
there following this tragedy.
They will.
And other
groups, including my own,
have said
we will not send convoys north
at this time because they are so often
targeted by the Israeli war machine.
And if if they now will have
a deconfliction system
and notification system
with international staff embedded
in the Israeli
military command,
it would be this a step in the right
direction.
I've been an aid worker
in many war zones, and we had a system
in Afghanistan with the US military
in the air
when the US was there
in the Afghan military high command.
And that worked
pretty well We had even in the 2006 war
in Lebanon
between Israel and Hezbollah,
we had UN staff in the Israeli
high command.
We haven't had that in the Gaza War.
And partly
therefore, I think
there hasn't been a deconfliction system,
a notification system
that has perfected a yes.
However, we need
really more than anything as a cease fire
so that this senseless blood
should be stopped, stopped.
And the second thing we need
is all of the border crossings,
including those in the north,
that these red has shot down
so that we cannot reach civilians
in a safe way.
We need those border crossings to.